Go to, users can change what they see.
So let's put it better,
change the content.
See content which was actually here,
I guess an empty box,
that's content in a sense,
and then change the content.
Which is to say, change what they see,
the high and change online data for
it and then display it on the page.
They're changing what they
see based on their action.
User direction typing,
clicking cuz this was typing, right?
Is registered.
Registered is a password for
the DOM element knowing, and
this is one of those moments where
it's like, how is that implemented?
Well, all we need to know as engineers for
building out web applications is,
when the user takes action
on that input field,
the associated handler triggers
running back on the callback queues.
It's literally a reference to that
function is added to the callback queue.
That's the DOM's job and then JavaScript
will then execute that function.
They know then they're taught but
how can this cause a change in data,
which is elsewhere in JavaScript?
Because of the handler functions.
It lets the user action or input notice
events, password for events and sort of.
Yeah, the construct that ensure
that when a user takes action,
an associated function based on that type
of action, in this case an input event.
In this case an input event triggers
the associated function to handle
the input pass back into JavaScript
where we can then change the data.
That key line there shouldn't
really be there, honestly.
We've been talking about
let it be passed back.
This line here is where we are assigning,
where we're storing that
handle input function ready to
be triggered by user action.
By saving a function, [INAUDIBLE] here.
Let's say we wanted evidence in the DOM
element where the user action event
happens.
The function be called back into
JavaScript and execute automatically.
So what?
Okay, that's very optimistic.
Well, user actions can then trigger
running JavaScript code to save or
change the underlying data post,
in this case in JavaScript.
And then change what's displayed back
in the DOM by taking that data and
sticking it anywhere we want
on that list of elements.
Now we have to manually
reupdate the DOM with our data.
There's no propagation.
Every time the data changes here,
we have to manually go and
update what's seen on this, or
what's added to this DOM at C++ DOM.
But we have a full user interface.
Goal 1,
display content data inside the computer.
In this case all in JavaScript as the view
for the user to see it has to be from
JavaScript cuz that's where
there's mutable data.
Goal 2,
enable the user to interact by tapping or
clicking with what they see, they view,
and then change that content.
Which means in practice,
changing underlying data in JavaScript,
and then we went from post being
an empty string to high, and
then displaying that back on the view.
All right, people,
that's our full user interface.
Let's have thumbs.
I wanna see every clarification question.
If I punt some of them, forgive me,
but something will show up later.
You lost me, I have a clear mental
model of, I need clarification.
What is wrong with all of you?
If you literally looking around,
[INAUDIBLE] you do not need to emulate.
Okay, is anyone got clarifications, why?
Good, no?
>> It's not a question,
I'm not sure it's super topical, but
having spent a bunch of time in imperative
Dom land and the teens and being,
why is it hundreds of milliseconds to
change this one thing on this list?
This is the first time
I've understood like,
it's cuz there's tons of
memory being allocated.
>> And it's all sorts of interesting
pieces happening in this process.
And I think it's just,
I mean, don't think that the one
minute is because of anything.
The one minute here is just the use
was really preparing what to write.
>> [LAUGH]
>> All right.
>> How does the callback queue relate to
the task and micro task queues?
Is it different and
how does it fit priority?
>> Okay.
So callback queue is our task queue.
Micro task queue is our Priority VIP
line as I know some of our
audience like to call it,
some of our community like to call it.
So they are queues that
have different priorities.
So if there were multiple items in
the callback queue, if we had a handle
of input, but then they were also to click
these would all start queuing up here,
ready to be added to the call stack
once the previous one has been removed.
Actually, sorry,
I should have said this callback.
I should have said that this
callback here, handle input,
which was called back in,
I should have said has now been removed
when it was added to the call stack.
So this is removed.
But if there had been an error
function in the micro task queue,
does anyone know what
actions in JavaScript put
a function in the micro task queue in?
>> Something like asynchronous?
>> Yeah,
these things are all asynchronous.
What's the specific?
Are you talking about
asynchronous functions?
>> Yeah.
>> Specifically.
>> If you invoke an a sync function.
>> Yeah, yeah, exactly.
It's specifically an a sync await under
the hood, which is implementing promises,
at least was-
>> [LAUGH]
>> That goes into the micro task queue.
And they take precedence even over, so
they were both waiting in the queue here.
The micro tiles queue will take
precedence over the callback queue for
being able to the call stack.
But we're not thinking
about that right here.